# SwEnt M1 Team Grading Report

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.


## Yellow Belt

You qualified for a Yellow Belt 🥋🟡 and got a final grade of 4.17/6 for M1. Good start! Keep practicing to improve. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into five categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                          | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, CI, tests)** | 4.18 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-ci-tests) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog** | 3.5 out of 6      | 20%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Figma**                       | 4.5 out of 6       | 15%        | [See Details](#figma)                     |
| **Architecture**                | 4.5 out of 6 | 15%       | [See Details](#architecture)               |
| **Scrum process documents**     | 4.5 out of 6       | 10%        | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents)    |
| **Final Grade**                 | **4.17 out of 6**    |            |                                           |


In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

## Implementation (APK, CI, tests)

We looked at whether your APK is functional and reliable. We also assessed your repo setup, whether it is clearly organized and if there is a CI running Sonar Cloud and running tests including at least one meaningful end-to-end test.

- Location permissions are not handled correctly -> crash.
- Home and Profile pages are totally empty.
- Marker names are not descriptive.
- Sonar is correctly integrated in the repo.
- The tests are run by the CI.
- There is at least one meaningful end-to-end test.
- The line coverage on M1 code is 80,7
- You could develop your README with a more detailed description of your project.
- Some inconsistencies in the branch names.

For this part, you received 4.18 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them.
We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

- Missing tags for each task.
- No description for the tasks.
- Divide the task to avoid having 2 people on the same task (ex: Refactoring test of UI). 
- No estimated time.

- User stories are complete: well defined and described.
- Some user stories do not have acceptance criteria.

For this part, you received 3.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma

We evaluated your Figma, whether it is up-to-date with the app and how it is used as a communication, planning and design tool to accelerate the implementation of good UI.

- Wire-frame is present / good 
- Mock-up is not interactive
- Figma is up to date and ahead of the app
- UI looks good

For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Architecture

We reviewed your project’s architecture diagram, whether it is up-to-date with the app and if it follows clean design principles. We also looked at how it is used to discuss and document the architecture of the app as the app evolves.

- feels complex, could make the visual easier to understand (add colors, grouping, etc.)
- UI layer Profile Screen missing
- Nominatim cloud missing

For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process Documents

We reviewed your Scrum process documentation, including Sprint Retrospectives and Team Standup. We assessed whether they documented the process in detail, and how they were used to prepare the meetings. We also looked at your ability to lead structured and effective meetings, with everyone's participation.

- Filled on time with relevant information
- Could have been a bit more developed and we saw some "No issues", even though the feature was not merged in time in the end.

- Need to lead more the meeting
- Should focus more on the goal, and use the time effectively

For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M1 is 4.17. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!


