# SwEnt M2 Team Grading Report

The M2 feedback provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on how well your team has applied good software engineering practices, delivered user value, and collaborated effectively. We assessed the quality and maintainability of your implementation, the clarity of your design, and the consistency of your delivery and teamwork across Sprints. An important component is how much you have progressed since the previous milestone. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document. As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

## Green Belt

You qualified for a Green Belt 🥋🟢 and got a final grade of 4.68/6 for M2. Great job! You're building solid foundations. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into six categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                                   | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, code quality)**   | 4.8 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-code-quality) |
| **Features**                             | 4.41 out of 6   | 20%        | [See Details](#features)                  |
| **Figma and Architecture Diagram**       | 4.25 out of 6 | 10%     | [See Details](#figma-and-architecture-diagram) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog**     | 5.5 out of 6    | 10%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Scrum Process (documents, autonomy)**  | 4.5 out of 6 | 10%       | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents-autonomy) |
| **Consistent Delivery of Value**         | 4.5 out of 6 | 10%      | [See Details](#consistent-delivery-of-value) |
| **Final Grade**                          | **4.68 out of 6**   |            |                                           |

In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

---

## Implementation (APK, code quality)

We evaluated your APK’s functionality, stability, and user experience, along with the quality and consistency of your code. We also reviewed your CI setup, Sonar integration, and tests, including the presence of at least two meaningful end-to-end tests and the line coverage achieved.

UI/UX:
- The sign/In screen is for now integrated directly in the app, which is a bit weird. Consider creating a fully isolated screen, where there is no navbar. (see bootcamp)
- There is an hardcoded contact in the app, me, which we did not create
- Guide the user on the expected input type: phone number format etc...
- UI is quite responsive, good job!  The dashboards looks also quite good
- Danger mode is for now not fully implemented, but there is no indicator of that on the app.
- Map works well!

Bug:
- You mentionned it already in the meeting, but the login doesn't work for now.

Crash:
- The read button on the article made the app crash.

Repo:
- It would be nice to have a readme that summarizes your app.
- There are a lot of issues in the overview page of Sonar. It could be good to create a task to adress them. (there are a lot of interesting metrics to dive into there)
- The folder structure could be unified a bit. You have a folder with all the repository, but then the authRepository is in the auth folder
- Your commit conventions and branch naming are well followed

For this part, you received 4.8 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Features

We evaluated the features implemented in this milestone. We looked for the completion of at least one epic, as well as the use of at least one public cloud service, one phone sensor, and a concept of authentication.
We assessed how well the implemented features align with the app’s objectives, integrate with existing functionality, and contribute to delivering clear user value.


- Your task prioritization could have been better. Firebase and authentication were known requirements for multiple sprints and planning them in S5 was really risky. 

For this part, you received 4.41 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma and Architecture Diagram

We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure. 

- Make sure you update the Figma before creating new screens in the app. The idea is for Figma to stay ahead of the app so you always have a clear visual guide for how the app should look.

- Health card display is different in the figma and the app

Architecture diagram:
- The arrows that split are a bit hard to understand. For example with the map, it's more common to see an arrow that comes from the cloud, then trough the VM, and then from the VM to the screen and not one arrow that links all of them together.
- There are a lot of arrows that are missing. You have viewmodels that requires repository, but there are no visual links to them

For this part, you received 4.25 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them. We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

- Great task descriptions in the Sprint Backlog
- The user stories should be drafts and not issues. (13, 15-25)
- Acceptance criteria must describe observable behavior from the user’s perspective, not internal implementation details. (1, 3, 11, )
- 24 is not a user story: it does not describe value delivered to a user (end-users/customers)
- You user stories should not have task types, since they are not tasks. 
- For improvement and better readability of states, adding a tag about the state could be nice (ex: "Not started, "In progress", "Done")


For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process (documents, autonomy)

We evaluated your ability to autonomously run and document the Scrum process. We looked at how well you documented your team Stand-Ups and Retrospectives for each Sprint. We also assessed your level of autonomy in organizing and conducting these ceremonies, defining and prioritizing user stories in your Product Backlog, and planning well-scoped Sprint tasks that lead to concrete, valuable increments.

- Make sure you follow the meeting process so you can conduct it smoothly and in a structured way, without us needing to intervene.
- Make sure that the POs come prepare to the meeting. During the review, they should speak about the state of the previously stated sprint goals and the PO for the future sprint should define the goals for the following sprint. (They should not speak about precise tasks/developpment, but user stories/features they want in the app)
- Your team retrospective were modified by two people after the deadline. Please don't do that.

For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Consistent Delivery of Value

We reviewed your team’s ability to deliver meaningful increments of value at the end of each Sprint.  
We assessed whether your progress was steady, visible, and tied to concrete user value and app functionality, in line with your Product Backlog objectives.

- Your app is starting to take shape, but try to prioritize the tasks better to have meaningful and visual results every week. You could aim to add a new feature (backend + ui) per week so that your app is constantly evolving.

For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M2 is 4.68/6. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Keep up the good work and good luck for the next milestone!